README.md, before:

# lspkind-nvim

This tiny plugin adds vscode-like pictograms to neovim built-in lsp:

![Screenshot](https://github.com/onsails/lspkind-nvim/raw/images/images/screenshot.png "Screenshot")
<sup>[nvim-compe](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-compe), [vim-vsnip](https://github.com/hrsh7th/vim-vsnip), [vim-vsnip-integ](https://github.com/hrsh7th/vim-vsnip-integ), [jellybeans-nvim](https://github.com/metalelf0/jellybeans-nvim)</sup>

## Requirements

- [A patched font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/)

## Configuration

### Option 1: vanilla Neovim LSP

Wherever you configure lsp put the following lua command:

```lua
require('lspkind').init({
    -- DEPRECATED (use mode instead): enables text annotations
    --
    -- default: true
    -- with_text = true,

    -- defines how annotations are shown
    -- default: symbol
    -- options: 'text', 'text_symbol', 'symbol_text', 'symbol'
    mode = 'symbol_text',

    -- default symbol map
    -- can be either 'default' (requires nerd-fonts font) or
    -- 'codicons' for codicon preset (requires vscode-codicons font)
    --
    -- default: 'default'
    preset = 'codicons',

    -- override preset symbols
    --
    -- default: {}
    symbol_map = {
      Text = "󰉿",
      Method = "󰆧",
      Function = "󰊕",
      Constructor = "",
      Field = "󰜢",
      Variable = "󰀫",
      Class = "󰠱",
      Interface = "",
      Module = "",
      Property = "󰜢",
      Unit = "󰑭",
      Value = "󰎠",
      Enum = "",
      Keyword = "󰌋",
      Snippet = "",
      Color = "󰏘",
      File = "󰈙",
      Reference = "󰈇",
      Folder = "󰉋",
      EnumMember = "",
      Constant = "󰏿",
      Struct = "󰙅",
      Event = "",
      Operator = "󰆕",
      TypeParameter = "",
    },
})
```

### Option 2: [nvim-cmp](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-cmp)

```lua
local lspkind = require('lspkind')
cmp.setup {
  formatting = {
    format = lspkind.cmp_format({
      mode = 'symbol', -- show only symbol annotations
      maxwidth = 50, -- prevent the popup from showing more than provided characters (e.g 50 will not show more than 50 characters)
      ellipsis_char = '...', -- when popup menu exceed maxwidth, the truncated part would show ellipsis_char instead (must define maxwidth first)

      -- The function below will be called before any actual modifications from lspkind
      -- so that you can provide more controls on popup customization. (See [#30](https://github.com/onsails/lspkind-nvim/pull/30))
      before = function (entry, vim_item)
        ...
        return vim_item
      end
    })
  }
}
```

## Related LSP plugins

[diaglist.nvim](https://github.com/onsails/diaglist.nvim) – live render workspace diagnostics in quickfix with current buf errors on top, buffer diagnostics in loclist

Commit message:

Allow `maxwidth` to be a dynamic function
Allows `maxwidth` to be dynamic such as calculating a percentage of the width of the editor

README.md, after:

# lspkind-nvim

This tiny plugin adds vscode-like pictograms to neovim built-in lsp:

![Screenshot](https://github.com/onsails/lspkind-nvim/raw/images/images/screenshot.png "Screenshot")
<sup>[nvim-compe](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-compe), [vim-vsnip](https://github.com/hrsh7th/vim-vsnip), [vim-vsnip-integ](https://github.com/hrsh7th/vim-vsnip-integ), [jellybeans-nvim](https://github.com/metalelf0/jellybeans-nvim)</sup>

## Requirements

- [A patched font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/)

## Configuration

### Option 1: vanilla Neovim LSP

Wherever you configure lsp put the following lua command:

```lua
require('lspkind').init({
    -- DEPRECATED (use mode instead): enables text annotations
    --
    -- default: true
    -- with_text = true,

    -- defines how annotations are shown
    -- default: symbol
    -- options: 'text', 'text_symbol', 'symbol_text', 'symbol'
    mode = 'symbol_text',

    -- default symbol map
    -- can be either 'default' (requires nerd-fonts font) or
    -- 'codicons' for codicon preset (requires vscode-codicons font)
    --
    -- default: 'default'
    preset = 'codicons',

    -- override preset symbols
    --
    -- default: {}
    symbol_map = {
      Text = "󰉿",
      Method = "󰆧",
      Function = "󰊕",
      Constructor = "",
      Field = "󰜢",
      Variable = "󰀫",
      Class = "󰠱",
      Interface = "",
      Module = "",
      Property = "󰜢",
      Unit = "󰑭",
      Value = "󰎠",
      Enum = "",
      Keyword = "󰌋",
      Snippet = "",
      Color = "󰏘",
      File = "󰈙",
      Reference = "󰈇",
      Folder = "󰉋",
      EnumMember = "",
      Constant = "󰏿",
      Struct = "󰙅",
      Event = "",
      Operator = "󰆕",
      TypeParameter = "",
    },
})
```

### Option 2: [nvim-cmp](https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-cmp)

```lua
local lspkind = require('lspkind')
cmp.setup {
  formatting = {
    format = lspkind.cmp_format({
      mode = 'symbol', -- show only symbol annotations
      maxwidth = 50, -- prevent the popup from showing more than provided characters (e.g 50 will not show more than 50 characters)
                     -- can also be a function to dynamically calculate max width such as 
                     -- maxwidth = function() return math.floor(0.45 * vim.o.columns) end,
      ellipsis_char = '...', -- when popup menu exceed maxwidth, the truncated part would show ellipsis_char instead (must define maxwidth first)

      -- The function below will be called before any actual modifications from lspkind
      -- so that you can provide more controls on popup customization. (See [#30](https://github.com/onsails/lspkind-nvim/pull/30))
      before = function (entry, vim_item)
        ...
        return vim_item
      end
    })
  }
}
```

## Related LSP plugins

[diaglist.nvim](https://github.com/onsails/diaglist.nvim) – live render workspace diagnostics in quickfix with current buf errors on top, buffer diagnostics in loclist
